# Sabotage
How OSHA’s lack of bureaucratic autonomy enables powerful corporations to, through Congress, weaken private sector whistleblower protections

## Executive Summary

Achieving our climate and environmental goals requires regulation, but those regulations frequently experience regulatory instability which makes enforcement difficult. The solution to this are whistleblowers: insiders who alert regulators to noncompliance, providing relatively low-cost monitoring. Regulators need help from whistleblowers, but, without effective whistleblower protections, that cannot happen. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Whistleblower Protection Program (OSHA WPP), the organization responsible for most US private whistleblower protections, is meant to protect whistleblowers, but its policy design gets in the way of that mission. The three main, mutually-reinforcing problems are: 1) piecemeal legislation, spread across 25 and counting statutes from laws spanning half a century, overcomplicating implementation; 2) bad incentives for whistleblowers and bureaucrats; and 3) systematic underfunding dating back to OSHA’s creation in 1971. These problems seem intentional: due to Congress’s overbearing role in OSHA WPP’s policy design, the powerful industry interest groups targeting whistleblowers are given great opportunity to participate in designing whistleblower protection statutes, resulting in a system which seems intentionally sabotaged to discourage whistleblowing. The Biden Administration’s pro-labor agenda presents an opportunity to dismantle this system of sabotage, unleashing the potential workers have to play in helping regulators enforce compliance, increasing the effectiveness of pro-climate, pro-environment regulations. At least two potential solutions are: 1) giving OSHA WPP great autonomy in policy design; and 2) creating a bounty system to encourage whistleblowing. 

## Background

Weak whistleblower protections threaten our environmental goals. Most of our regulations promoting environmental goals--from climate change, to environmental protection--have benefits which are widely dispersed across society, but costs which are highly concentrated onto a handful of very powerful corporate interest groups, creating regulatory instability. Workers are invaluable for regulators, as, through “blowing the whistle” to let regulators know when their bosses are breaking the law, they make oversight much easier and cheaper. And yet, despite benefitting from solving climate change and protecting our environment, workers find themselves unable to help regulators, because to do so would invite retaliation (read: punishment) from their employer--be it as subtle as their manager intentionally making work-life balance harder, to outright firing them and blacklisting them from the industry they rely on for work. Whistleblower protections are meant to decrease the costs and increase the benefits of whistleblowing, and yet, in the US, they fail to accomplish that.

Our whistleblower protections are weak due to lack of bureaucratic autonomy. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) Whistleblower Protection Program (WPP) is responsible for most whistleblower rights protection in the US, but it was designed mainly by Congresspeople who, compared to bureaucrats, are much more vulnerable to interest group pressure. As a result, the very companies opposed to effective whistleblower protections may be the ones designing them, allowing them to sabotage OSHA WPP in the policy design process. This has caused three core problems weakening US whistleblower protections: unnecessarily-complex, piecemeal legislation; bad incentives for whistleblowers and bureaucrats; and a budgetary process which denies OSHA WPP the funding it needs.

The Biden Administration’s pro-labor agenda shows that there is an opportunity to dismantle this sabotaged system, and greatly strengthen whistleblower rights. There are at least two solutions available: 1) amending the OSH Act’s whistleblower statute to give OSHA WPP total control over the policy design process through “bureaucratic policy design”, relegating Congresspeople just to creating the policy goal; and 2) creating a bounty system, reducing the uncertainty of payoff and thereby increasing the net-benefit of whistleblowing for workers. By strengthening whistleblower protections, workers may become active participants in the fight against climate change, helping regulators enforce compliance on their bosses under conditions of regulatory instability.

## Theoretical Framework

This paper primarily uses the Meckling-Nahm theory of state capacity. Here, “state capacity” means the government’s ability to act in spite of interest group opposition. In addition to three core concepts from Meckling-Nahm is a theory for why Congress is especially vulnerable to monied interests.

### Concept 1: Policymaking Process

Policies are made in the following stages: policy goals; policy design; and finally, policy implementation. While it is ambiguous at the policy goal stage how benefits and costs will be distributed across specific interests and organizations, they are made explicit in the policy design stage. It is therefore during the policy design stage that interests are most motivated to attempt capturing the given policymakers.
  
[FIGURE 1]

### Concept 2: Legislators vs Bureaucrats

Bureaucrats are harder for interest groups to capture than legislators. The argument, then, is that, when bureaucrats handle the policy design stage, the overall policy becomes less vulnerable to capture, while the opposite is true for when legislators handle it.

### Concept 3: Policy Design Styles

According to Meckling-Nahm’s model, the legislator and bureaucracy each dominate one of the two critical stages--policy goal and policy design. When the bureaucracy is responsible for policy design, it is called “bureaucratic policy design; and for legislative, “legislative policy design”. Legislative policy design, because of concepts 1 and 2, is much more vulnerable to interest group influence than bureaucratic policy design, and therefore lowers state capacity. 

### Additional Concept: Congress’s Financial Vulnerability

The US Congress, through the fundraising system, is structured so as to be especially vulnerable to monied interest groups. Research taking advantage of plagiarism software shows that, during the construction of the Affordable Care Act, American senators were significantly influenced by lobbyists after they held a fundraising event for the given senator, even when controlling for ideological agreement, campaign contributions, and lobbying expenditure, suggesting that fundraising is an incredibly effective tactic for favor-trading with Congresspeople. This suggests that, at least for the US Congress, the influence of organized interests are magnified by their ability to provide Congresspeople funds. 

## Case

### Case Background

Private sector whistleblower protections in the US are a recent innovation. They began with the Civil Rights Act. Private whistleblower rights have since mainly expanded within the jurisdiction of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA, founded 1971), with some exceptions (such as in the IRS and the SEC.) The main bureaucracy protecting whistleblower rights across the entire private sector is OSHA’s Whistleblower Protection Program (OSHA WPP). Generally, workers have the right to “blow the whistle”, or use their insider status to report their organization for breaking some law. This is completely separate from public sector whistleblowing, which is not discussed here.
  
Whistleblowing is critical to enforcing regulations. Many of OSHA WPP’s statutes concern energy and the environment (see figure 2). Workers have the insider knowledge needed to properly monitor regulated firms, but employers often prevent this through “retaliation”, or punishing workers for blowing the whistle. Though a worker may care about the public good, they are rightfully more concerned with preserving the wellbeing of themselves and their dependents. Without effective whistleblower protections, workers may have no choice but to knowingly break the law, weakening otherwise-effective regulations.

[FIGURE 2]

OSHA WPP is effectively a sub-sub-agency. Within the Department of Labor is the sub-agency OSHA. OSHA’s resources are unevenly divided between what are colloquially called “Enforcement”--those enforcing statutes through inspections, often with tips from whistleblowers--and “Whistleblower”--the Whistleblower Protection Program, or WPP, which enforces whistleblower protections. Enforcement is monumentally larger than Whistleblower. In FY2023 and (estimated) FY2024, OSHA WPP received only about 3% (about $22 million) of OSHA’s total budget, while Enforcement received about 40% (about $240 million).

OSHA WPP only investigates, it cannot compensate whistleblowers itself. Figure 3 shows a simplified version of the process.

*Screening*
First, the “complainant”--the one alleging they have been retaliated against (read: punished) for some protected activity--submits a complaint to OSHA WPP, starting the screening process. The investigator on screening duty conducts a prima facie investigation to see if, on the face of it, one or more statutes may apply to the complainant. The investigator will then either refer the complaint to a state-level OSHA (either for workflow reasons, or because the complainant is covered by a state-level statute but not federal-level), dismiss the complaint for not falling under any statute, or begin an investigation, specifying the statute(s) potentially covering the complainant.

*Investigating*
In the investigation stage, the complaint becomes a case assigned to an investigator, who will then work with the complainant and the “respondent”--the organization alleged to have retaliated against the complainant--to amass information and figure out what really happened. Some statutes have a “kick-out” provision, allowing the complainant to end the investigation and sue their employer through the courts instead. Oftentimes, the investigator will help the complainant and respondent agree on a settlement, ending the investigation. Sometimes this happens under regulatory stability and the respondent did not intentionally violate whistleblower rights, but other times it is because continuing the legal process is expensive for both parties. Alternatively, the investigator may come up with a recommendation for the judge: if approved by their OSHA WPP supervisor and manager, the recommendation is sent to the judge for judgment; and if not, the investigation continues.


*Judging*
Finally, the judge--depending on the statute, either a district court judge, or an administrative law judge (ALJ)--issues a final ruling: “merit” for if the complainant is owed compensation, and “demerit” if not.

[FIGURE 3]

### OSHA WPP Policy Design

OSHA WPP unambiguously experiences legislative policy design. Congress handles the policy design process while OSHA bureaucrats handle the creation of key performance indicators.
The development of OSHA WPP’s private sector protections has been led by Congress, not OSHA WPP itself. While OSHA WPP began its existence just enforcing 11(c) of the OSH Act, Congress assigned it more and more statutes over time, now numbering 25 in total (see figure 2). As Dorsey notes, “Whistleblower protection acts share many features, but are emphatically not cookie-cutter copies of one another. Congress has refined its employment protections over time.” They typically specify how whistleblower protections for health and safety apply to particular industries (such as truck driving) or enforcing specific policies (such the removal of asbestos from schools).

It is not necessarily the case that Congress’s vulnerability to capture would weaken OSHA WPP. For one, some organized interests find it in their interest to seek regulation. One well-known example of this is the nuclear industry, which, due to the great cost of accidents, actively seeks regulation. Furthermore, labor unions, also an organized interest, have historically been supportive of OSHA.

But vulnerability to capture tends to weaken OSHA WPP for two reasons. First, OSHA WPP covers many different sectors. Unlike the few other agencies which handle whistleblower protections, OSHA WPP is at odds with a variety of powerful, organized industries, ranging from aircraft manufacturers, the finance sector, construction, and many more. This, because protecting whistleblower rights often causes regulatory instability, unites many interests against OSHA WPP. Second, these interests are monied. When corporations have enough funds to divert billions towards stock buybacks, it is no stretch of the imagination to think that they would be willing and able to set aside some thousands for influencing American legislators. And so, because Congress favors monied interests, and because OSHA WPP’s hostile interests are monied while its allied interests are not, the former win out in Congress and legislative policy design greatly imperils OSHA WPP to sabotage.
  
Anti-whistleblower interests have more to gain from a sabotaged system than from no system at all. For one, there may be times when it benefits them to protect whistleblowers: managers in the middle of an organization have separate interests from those at the top, and so may discourage whistleblowing in a way which harms their superiors. The middle manager may shift scrutiny from their specific sub-organization, to the organization as a whole, such as by transforming an egregious safety violation to a nationwide controversy which drastically increases pressure on the organization to reform, hurting their brand image at least. For this reason, OSHA WPP is useful as a way to externalize the cost of educating middle managers of whistleblower protections and enforcing them. Another benefit is that OSHA WPP impedes the ability of whistleblowers to sue their employers. Capturing OSHA WPP is surely much easier than capturing the entire US legal system, so forcing whistleblowers to use a captured OSHA WPP is advantageous. Even though every new statute after 2001 (including 1974’s ERA) has included a kick-out provision, they all nevertheless force the whistleblower to work through OSHA WPP for at least half a year.
  
OSHA WPP has three core issues which decrease its effectiveness, and they all originate from Congress’s excessive role in the policy design process. While intent is unknownable, it can be inferred: private sector whistleblower protections seem sabotaged by design.

### Problem 1: Piecemeal Legislation

Congress, rather than creating a simple vague mandate, manually expands OSHA WPP’s responsibilities. It is an evolutionary process spanning decades. While OSHA WPP might have initially given bureaucrats more ability to design policy back when it was just one statute, 11(c) of the OSH Act, this legislative process of creating successive statutes puts the legislative firmly in the driver’s seat for policy design. This causes two issues: first, it over-complicates the implementation of whistleblower rights; and second, it makes it very simple for special interests to include carve outs to weaken their industry’s whistleblower rights.
  
This piecemeal process complicates implementation. Each statute varies in subtle but important ways, making procedural mistakes more likely. For example, every statute specifies the “Days to File” requirement, or the number of days (not including certain special days) since the incident within which the complainant must file a complaint to OSHA WPP. For some reason, statutes vary significantly in this regard; for example OSH Act 11(c) has 30 days to file, AHERA has 90, and CPSIA has 180. They vary in many more ways, such as in burden of proof requirements, standing requirements (is this person eligible to make a complaint?), and so on. They vary even in how the whistleblower can be compensated. This is further complicated by how some investigations apply multiple statutes at once.

The piecemeal process makes capture trivially easy. By designing pieces of legislation that are often specific to particular industries, Congress invites (figuratively and/or literally) special interests to take part in its creation, giving interests acting under conditions of regulatory instability to sabotage whistleblower protections in their industry. For example, it strains credulity to think that, during the process of the construction of AIR21 (aircraft safety regulations), Boeing lobbyists played a small role.

 ### Problem 2: Bad Incentives
 
OSHA WPP is structured such that there are bad incentives for the main actors involved in protecting whistleblowing: the whistleblower, and the bureaucrats of OSHA WPP. This weakens whistleblower rights by decreasing the number of whistleblowers, both through discouraging interaction with OSHA WPP and decreasing coverage.
  
Whistleblowing is inherently costly. It often ends one’s career. There is also a large time cost, with some cases lasting years. And, while the costs of retaliation occur now, the benefits of whistleblower protection are both delayed and uncertain, reducing the net-present value (NPV) of blowing the whistle. For this reason, a critical part of whistleblower protection is compensating these costs for whistleblowers.
  
And yet, Congress specified whistleblower protections such that there is little compensation. On paper, OSHA WPP is meant to make the whistleblower “whole” by helping get the offender to compensate for damages to the whistleblower. In practice, that’s often beyond reach. Powerful corporations can afford highly-skilled lawyers, and not every worker is financially privileged enough to last long in the legal process. Settlement is much more realistic, but settlement, unfortunately, is often short of being made whole. As Figure 4 shows, in FY2023 (October 2022 through September 2023), the vast majority of positive outcomes for whistleblowers at the federal level came from settlement, not merit rulings (23, out of about 1,000).

Settlements are not always a bad thing. Some employers act under conditions of regulatory stability, and understandably may unintentionally violate whistleblower protections. And, as was discussed earlier, some employers acting under regulatory instability may nevertheless experience regulatory stability when the retaliation was made by a middle manager, and will therefore quickly settle. In such a situation, settlement can be the best of both worlds: the complainant is made whole, and without having to go through a lengthy legal process. Many large firms, however, act under conditions of regulatory instability regarding OSHA WPP, so one may infer their serial violations are intentional, and that settlements with them are more-so bargains.
The high rate of settlement may act as a deterrent for whistleblowers by lowering the anticipated payoff and increasing uncertainty. The fact that settlement is incredibly more likely than receiving a merit ruling must signal to the potential whistleblower that the likely payoff is much less than it would seem at first--something a prospective whistleblower would learn rather quickly, either by browsing the OSHA WPP website, or by being informed by their OSHA WPP investigator. The payoff is also made more uncertain by how it is unknown how generous the respondent’s settlement offer will be, further disincentivizing whistleblowing.

Another issue is how, from the whistleblower’s perspective, the payoff is hard to estimate, introducing risk which further deters whistleblowing. While non-monetary compensation is inherently qualitative and thus hard to make clear, the same is not true with monetary payoffs. Bounty systems can make payoffs clear, but OSHA WPP’s statutes use a complex, qualitative method. According to the publicly-available Whistleblower Investigations Manual, the 290-page document which is used internally to make sense of implementing all 25 statutes, “All of OSHA’s whistleblower statutes provide for  for reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages for pecuniary losses and non-pecuniary damages… A number of the statutes permit punitive damages and recovery of attorney’s fees.” Each component of this must be calculated through much documentation and arbitrary formulae, making it costly for the whistleblower to calculate the potential payoff themselves, not to mention fundamentally unpredictable. This also increases uncertainty of benefit, disincentivizing whistleblowing.

[FIGURE 4]

OSHA WPP also gives its bureaucrats bad incentives. While OSHA WPP is filled with wonderful, mission-driven people who do their best to help whistleblowers as much as possible, they are still rational actors living under conditions of scarcity, and thus vulnerable to perverse incentives, no matter their virtue. OSHA WPP’s bureaucrats especially live under scarcity, considering how chronically underfunded OSHA has been since its inception (discussed in Problem 3, see figure 5). This is a big problem, as the statutes OSHA WPP enforces were written in such a way to give bureaucrats many opportunities to decrease workload by compromising the mission.
  
The over-complicated system creates an information asymmetry, magnifying the principal-agent problem between a given investigator and their auditor conducting oversight. Because there are so many Congressionally-specified rules about how a given statute can be used to protect whistleblowers, it is conceivable that an investigator could use this complexity err on the side of denying coverage. This is in large part due to the qualitative nature of the work: one must accrue large pieces of non-standardized information, choose who to contact and to ask what, and so on. One could certainly, then, steer the investigation in the respondent’s favor, asking questions which give them as much plausible deniability as possible. This is inherently hard to perform oversight on, for actually obtaining this information independently is very labor-intensive. Not just that, the information collection is time-sensitive, as a lot of it is oral or perhaps kept in digital documents which may be misplaced or edited over time. This inherent information asymmetry makes discouraging perverse behavior much more difficult.

### Problem 3: Embattled Budget

OSHA is chronically underfunded. Figure 5 compares OSHA’s actual budget to its inflation-adjusted budget from 1974, and shows each year a new statute was assigned to OSHA WPP.
But first, four data caveats. First, this is budget authority data, which is not exactly the same as what OSHA actually spends, but it is similar. Second, this is data on OSHA’s budget, not WPP, but we may, with some safety, assume OSHA WPP’s budget remains roughly proportional to OSHA’s. Third, this data is temporally-incomplete, for OSHA was founded in 1971, but the earliest year for which budgetary data could be found was in 1974. And fourth, while this graph presents an incomplete picture because it ignores how an increasing number of states have begun creating state-level OSHA equivalents, their inclusion would not probably change the graph’s implication. Not only does a substantial amount of federal OSHA’s budget goes to state-level OSHAs (about 20%, or about $120 million, in FY2023 and [estimated] FY2024), state-level OSHAs also experience systematic underfunding. California’s Cal-OSHA is a notable example.

OSHA’s budget is roughly the same as it was in 1974, despite being assigned more statutes and serving nearly double the people. As the figure shows, OSHA’s overall budget stays roughly on par with inflation over time; while it deviated starting in 2000, inflation caught up with the actual budget after 2010, and now in 2023 the two are roughly equal. At first glance this seems adequate, until at least two major issues are considered. First, as shown with the gray dashed lines, OSHA WPP receives more and more statutes to enforce over time, with most not coinciding with budget increases for the additional workload. Second, the US population is increasing all throughout this time. At the start of 1970, the US population was about 200 million; it is now nearly double that, at about 350 million. In other words, that means that OSHA WPP has roughly the same budget as it did in 1974, when adjusted for inflation, but now with 22 more statutes and about double the number of persons to serve.

One may retort that budget increases for each new statute are unnecessary, for, as figure 4 shows, the vast majority of statutes are filed under 11(c). This is misleading for two reasons. First, because cases may be filed under multiple statutes, it is possible that the OSHA row is inflated--11(c), being the first statute, is of course general-enough to apply to many cases. Second, infrequently-applied statutes are likely more time-consuming. This is because the learning curve certainly applies to statute enforcement: the more a given investigator--and the organization generally--enforces one statute, the more skilled they become at enforcing it in the future. Thus, while 11(c) might be committed to heart, ISCA, which had no completed cases in FY2023, might be very time-consuming when it does appear. Even niche statutes, then, deserve budget increases.

[FIGURE 5]

OSHA WPP’s chronic underfunding is due to Congress. Though perhaps not conventionally considered part of policy design, how policy is financed is a very important part of design. Two arbitrary choices which increased Congress’s role in OSHA’s financing--and thus also the opportunity for interests to sabotage OSHA--were made. First, Congress decided that OSHA should be an agency. That, of course, is not the only option; as OSHA WPP is, at its core, an investigatory service, it could conceivably operate as a state-owned enterprise, or even a regulated private entity. The problem with being an agency is that OSHA WPP has no independent revenue streams; its funding depends entirely on what Congress allows it. Second, Congress decided that OSHA should receive funding through the Congressional budget process. This also was not the only option, even if it was customary. Also conceivable are alternate means of creating the agency’s budget which do not involve Congress--such as an independent third party, a mathematical formula, and so on. The Congressional budgeting process gives interest groups the opportunity to starve OSHA WPP of funding. As figure 5 suggests, this seems to have been done by making it a struggle to keep OSHA’s budget on par with inflation, let alone increase it.

The consequences of underfunding magnify the other problems. Piecemeal legislation is much harder to deal with, when a low budget means more difficulty attracting and retaining human capital, and thus difficulty advancing along the learning curve to increase efficiency. And the pressure to give in to bad incentives is greater when, due to staffing shortages, one is swamped with work. And for the prospective whistleblower, this surely delays when the uncertain benefit will arrive, while at the same time increasing the chance of their case being mismanaged and therefore increasing the uncertainty of the benefit, altogether disincentivizing whistleblowing.

## Discussion

### The Problem

US private whistleblower rights are weak because of lack of bureaucratic autonomy. When the legislative handles policy design, the very interest groups whistleblowers retaliating against them are able to influence the design of their industry’s statute(s) themselves. While it would be near impossible to assess exactly the role of special interests in designing OSHA WPP’s statutes, it can be inferred by how intentional features of policy design end up sabotaging private whistleblower rights, through piecemeal legislation that makes implementation difficult, bad incentives which deter whistleblowing and reward bad customer service, and a financing method which gives special interests the ability to starve OSHA of funds.

### Two Solutions

There are at least two solutions available. But, while they would solve problems 1 and 2, they would not solve problem 3; solving the budgetary problem would be far more complex, involving perhaps either the conversion of OSHA WPP into a state-owned enterprise, or the removal of OSHA from the Congressional budgetary process, securing its funding either through an independent third party or mathematical calculation.

One solution is for Congress to amend the OSH Act’s whistleblower statute to give OSHA WPP a broad, vague mandate to protect whistleblower rights. This would effectively end legislative policy design, and institute bureaucratic policy design. According to Meckling-Nahm’s argument, this would reduce risk of capture, and logically lead to an increase in whistleblower protections. This could be done by amending 11(c) of the OSH Act, giving OSHA WPP vague instructions which allow it to use internally-made rules in place of the 25 statutes. The other 24 statutes need not be amended, for, if given enough room, OSHA bureaucrats could perhaps solely apply this new universal statute. It is uncertain how the judicial branch might complicate this process, as that would require skilled legal analysis.

Another solution is to somehow create a bounty system. Bounty systems are when the cash economic incentive is made clear to the whistleblower, such that they know exactly how much lump-sum cash they will receive if they blow the whistle. This removes uncertainty on the benefits side of the cost-benefit analysis, thereby incentivizing whistleblowing. Bounty systems have been shown to work in other federal whistleblower programs. The cleanest way to do this would probably be by amending the OSH Act, but that would involve Congress and, by extension, the interest groups sabotaging OSHA WPP. It is conceivable that, to get around Congress, the Executive Branch could somehow create a bounty system independent of OSHA, using authority derived from outside the OSH Act, but enable OSHA WPP’s whistleblowers to use it. How this would exactly work is knowable only to Executive Branch bureaucrats, making the viability of this plan uncertain except to the Executive Branch itself.

Thankfully, there seems to be a political opening for reform. The Biden administration has arguably weakened corporate interest groups altogether, through structural reforms such as the strengthening of union protections. Though the interests against OSHA WPP are still very powerful, this suggests weakness, as, if they were unable to achieve their goals in those policy fights, there is a chance they will fail to preserve their sabotaged whistleblower protection system. Further, strengthening whistleblower protections would be self-reinforcing, as they would further weaken its opposing interest groups through decreasing the financial power with which they influence Congress, as the whole point of sabotaging whistleblower protections is to increase profits.

Over the last half-century, corporate America constructed a sabotaged whistleblower protection system which decreased whistleblower protections. But, through clever reforms, the product of those decades of work can be made to come crashing down. Like never before, workers would become active participants in the fights against climate change and environmental degradation, working with--not against--government bureaucrats to enforce regulations, limiting regulatory instability’s negative impact on regulatory effectiveness.

## References

Dorsey, William. “An Overview of Whistleblower Protection Claims at the United States Department of Labor.” Journal of the National Association of Administrative Law Judiciary 26, no. 1 (2006): 43–122.
“FY 2025 Congressional Budget Justification: Occupational Safety and Health Administration,” 2024. https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/general/budget/2025/CBJ-2025-V2-12.pdf.

Gonzalez, Jarod S. “A Pot of Gold at the End of the Rainbow: An Economic Incentives-Based Approach to OSHA Whistleblowing.” Employee Rights and Employment Policy Journal 14, no. 2 (2010): 325–54.

McKay, Amy Melissa. “Fundraising for Favors? Linking Lobbyist-Hosted Fundraisers to Legislative Benefits.” Political Research Quarterly 71, no. 4 (December 1, 2018): 869–80. https://doi.org/10.1177/1065912918771745.

Meckling, Jonas, and Jonas Nahm. “The Power of Process: State Capacity and Climate Policy.” Governance 31, no. 4 (December 2017): 741–57.

Miller, Maya. “Cal-OSHA Is Experiencing a Staffing Crisis. Here’s How That Endangers California Workers.” The Sacramento Bee, March 11, 2024. https://www.sacbee.com/news/politics-government/the-state-worker/article283078973.html.

Weil, David. “OSHA: Beyond The Politics.” News. PBS, January 9, 2003. https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/workplace/osha/weil.html.
“Whistleblower Investigations Manual,” April 29, 2022. https://www.osha.gov/sites/default/files/enforcement/directives/CPL_02-03-011.pdf.

